
1
Brock faculty and students – Research at Brock
If you are a faculty or staff member and need more information or access to forms and procedures, please sign into the Office of Research Services SharePoint site and click into the Innovation and Commercialization section.
Inventions and other intellectual property are managed in accordance with University policy, which is outlined in Article 38 under the Collective Agreement Between Brock University and the Brock University Faculty Association (BUFA) July 1, 2014 to June 30, 2017.
With the exception of contract research or research covered by Article 38.04, and subject to the special rights hereinafter reserved in this paragraph, the University waives any claim to the ownership of, or beneficial interest in, any invention developed by a member (notwithstanding that such invention might be intellectually conceived in the course of University work).
For more details, please read Article 38 in its entirety.
Creators may choose to partner with Brock to commercialize their IP, in which case, the intellectual property is assigned to Brock and Brock agrees to share the net revenue 50/50 with the originators. In return, Brock will manage the legal, financial and ethical risk in maintaining and commercializing the IP. Brocks share is used to support research and innovation at Brock. While commercializing the IP, Brock always ensures that the creators retain academic rights to their IP, thus future research remains unhindered.
Brock makes no claim to IP created by its faculty or students during the normal course of their employment or studies. At the same time, if faculty or students have used University facilities and support in creating IP, the University and the creator together are ethically, legally and financially involved. For this reason, Brock asks that all commercial activities at Brock be disclosed to the University.
First Step: Fill out an Invention Disclosure form.
At this stage, our Technology Transfer Officer will review and asses the potential of a given innovation. This may include a prior art search and/or market research assessments. Given there is potential, Brock Innovations and our partners, will discuss a commercialization strategy with the inventor.
Many of our researchers have longstanding partnerships with business, helping to solve real world problems and create value for Canadian and international companies. These opportunities also allow students to gain real-world experience and build relationships with established companies.
In a partnership, the faculty member will assign their commercial rights to Brock, and Brock and the creators will enter into a revenue sharing agreement in accordance with University policies. While commercializing the IP, Brock always ensures that the creators retain academic rights to their IP, thus future research remains unhindered.
Resources to create spin-off companies include: Innovate Niagara; MaRS; Ontario Centres of Excellence; and BioLinc.
We liaise closely with BioLinc, a dynamic business incubation facility housed in the Goodman School of Business dedicated to promoting and enhancing the growth and commercialization of new businesses and discoveries taking place at Brock.
We also provide extension and consultancy services, which include the use of Brock equipment or facilities, as well as the sale of surplus materials, often specialty chemicals.
Please contact us binnovations@brocku.ca for further details.

2
For Industry – Research at Brock
If you would like to become an industry or business partner with Brock University, or a mentor to help with a student or faculty venture at Brock, contact us for a confidential discussion. We can help by introducing you to both Brock researchers and available research funding programs.
Brock has growing patent portfolio. Many of our patents are available to license.
Many of our researchers have longstanding partnerships with business, helping to solve real world problems and create value for Canadian and international companies. These opportunities also allow students to gain real-world experience and build relationships with established companies.
Opportunities include grants funded from Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada, Ontario Centres of Excellence, Ontario Genomics, Ontario Brain Institute and more. For details of funds that you can apply for, contact binnovations@brocku.ca
We also provide extension and consultancy services, which include the use of Brock equipment or facilities, as well as the sale of surplus materials, often specialty chemicals.
Brock has specialist equipment that is not readily available elsewhere. This equipment, and services related to the use of the equipment, may be made available to external parties with the permission of the University.
Brock professors may choose to provide consultancy personally or through the University. Brock has expert knowledge to share with the commercial world across a broad spectrum of disciplines.
Companies seeking an extension service or consultancy, please contact us at: binnovations@brocku.ca for further details.
$
For both extension services and consultancy, Brock will:
Handle invoicing and payments
Be the legal party
Provide information on market rates
Seek out further opportunities
$

3
Graduate Registration – Registration Guides and Timetables
Biological Science students must submit a completed and signed Registration Approval Form to the Graduate Program Director in MC F234. Please note that courses must be registered on line before they can be approved. The form can be downloaded here.
Biotechnology students must submit a completed and signed Registration Approval Form to the Graduate Program Director in MC F234. Please note that courses must be registered on line before they can be approved. The form can be downloaded here.
Chemistrystudents must submit a completed and signed Registration Approval Form to the Chemistry Graduate Program Director. Please note that courses must be registered on line before they can be approved. The form can be downloaded here.
It is strongly recommended that graduate students review their program degree requirements outlined in the Graduate Calendar. Review the course timetables using the links on the left regarding course selection and offerings for the term. Graduate students should also consult with their Graduate Program Director and/or their research supervisor regarding their course selection prior to registering each term.
For new students, all pre-registration conditions outlined in your offer of admission letter must be met before registering for graduate courses.
Only full-time graduate students are eligible to register in undergraduate or graduate course(s) as an Extra course offered outside of your program degree requirements. (Full-time graduate students are eligible to register for 1 full credit or two half-credit courses without charge, per program).
Please note Master of Business Economics (MBE) students who wish to take a course (MBAB) in the Goodman School of Business must contact Ms. Carrie Kelly, Director of Graduate Programs, Goodman School of Business (ckelly@brocku.ca) for an override. MBE students should not contact course instructors directly.
After registering, the students Graduate Program Director (or designate) will review the graduate students online registration and will approve or disapprove each course registration. If a course is disapproved, the student will be deregistered from that course. Students should check the Applicant & Student Self Serve under CrsMarkInquiry on a regular basis in to confirm which courses they are registered in.
If you are interested in registering for a course not listed on the timetable, please contact your Graduate Program Director.
Please note: Students owing fees will not be permitted to register for courses.
If you have any questions regarding course selection, or program of study, please contact your Graduate Program Director. If you have questions regarding registration, please email: gradregistration@brocku.ca
Through your my.brocku.ca student portal, you will be able to access registration as well as information regarding your academic status, degree progression, financial status and other important information.
To activate yourmy.brocku.ca account, begin with clicking on Applicant, New, Returning Student or Alumni link. Read and follow the instructions on each screen. This process will also provide you with a Brock E-mail account and a Brock computer account. When you have completed activating yourmy.brocku.ca account, log in using your student number and your new password.
Brock University Departments/Centres, as well as the Faculty of Graduate Studies, will use only your Brock e-mail address as a means of contacting you. It is your responsibility to check this account often. You cannot forward this e-mail address to any hotmail or any other e-mail address you may have.
Complete your Financial Responsibility Agreement, and on the Applicant and Student Self Serve Page, click on Register in the menu along the left side of the page.
If you disagree with any information displayed, click the I disagree button under the information in question. Once you have answered each section of the Declaration, click the next button. You will be permitted to register.
Entering I disagree in your declaration will NOT change your status officially. To affect a change in one of the three areas above, you must contact the Faculty of Graduate Studies. You will only be permitted to continue with the registration process once you have completed all three areas of the declaration.
To register for your first course, enter the Course Name (eg. POLI) and the Course Number (eg. 5P82). Click GO  you do not need to enter the day/time information. Once you have clicked GO, you will be presented with the section(s) of the courses that you can choose from. Note that, in many cases, there is only one section of each course available.
Click Add to register in the course and section of your choice. If a course and section are already full, the Add option will not appear and a message ** FULL ** will show on the left side of your screen. A green message will appear indicating that you have successfully registered in the course and the course will be added to your List of Registered Courses at the bottom of your screen. If you are unsuccessful at registering for your selected course and section, a red message will appear and explain the error encountered. ( **Please note: If a course has a + sign icon to the left of the course name, click on the icon to see the seminar, lab or tutorial options.) Next to each course there will be an Add option. Click Add to register.
In the List of Registered Courses for Current Registration Period you will see the approval status of the course(s). The Graduate Program Director will review and approve or disapprove your course selection. Until the Graduate Program Director reviews your course selection, the status Requires Approval will appear below the course name and number. Once the course is approved, the status will indicate Approved. If a course is disapproved, you will be deregistered from that course. Please checkmy.brocku.ca under CrsMarksInquiry to see which courses you are registered in.
Repeat the course registration step until you are registered for all your courses.
$
Select the program/session (eg. Master of Arts: Spring or Fall/Winter) from the drop down menu. You will be asked to complete a declaration in five areas:
Program of Study
Status in Program (full-time or part-time)
Immigration Status
Mailing Address
Local Address
$
For all important dates, including when registration will open and close, please refer to theImportant Datespage.
You may add, drop or change courses via the web only up to the registration close dates for each session.
After the close dates, changes to registration must be done via aCourse Registration/Withdrawal Formfrom the Faculty of Graduate Studies.
Please submit the Course Registration/Withdrawal form to your program for approval.
All information on tuition and payment of fees can be found on the Student Accounts and Financial Aid website.
You can update your mailing address through this screen, however you must contact the Registrars Office in writing to change your permanent address.
By accessing this option you may view all courses you have registered in or taken at Brock and their grades (up to the current session). Students with overdue fees will be prevented from viewing grades and accessing academic transcripts.
You may access your financial account details with the University. Typically course changes are reflected under this screen within one business day.
Scroll to the bottom of the page and click on the + to expand your Financial History and view all individual transactions. Note that you may need to change the starting date at the top of the screen.
Displays your schedule for the duration.
With this function, you can change your Sakai, Badger Email, and computer lab passwords. You should set up your computer accounts after you have registered for the first time, so that you have computer access available when you get to campus. Note that all three passwords are changed when you use this function.
Please refer to the Contact page for more information.
If registering yourself online, YOU MUST use your own degree drop down menu to register for the course.
If the course is be declared an Extra or an Audit course, you need to inform your GPD so that the GPD can code it accordingly when processing online course authorizations.
If online registration has closed, complete the hard copy Course Registration/Withdrawal form found here: https://brocku.ca/graduate-studies/student-resources/forms/. Ensure the form has all appropriate signatures and that the course is marked as Extra or Audit if appropriate. Submit the form to Faculty of Graduate Studies for processing.
Important note: If registering yourself online, YOU MUST use your own degree drop down menu to register for the course in order to not be charged for the course.
Note: Undergraduate students cannot register themselves online for a graduate course. Please consult with an academic advisor within your undergrad program before pursuing registration in a graduate course.
$
Before the you are able to register yourself online, you must obtain:
Approval of the supervisor of your Graduate Program (if you have a supervisor).
Approval of the GPD (Graduate Program Director) of your Graduate Program.
Approval of the GPD of the program offering the course.
Override from the Graduate Program offering the course (usually done through the graduate program administrative assistant). Note: As of June 2019 overrides have an expiry date.
Approval of the supervisor of your Graduate Program (if they have a supervisor).
Approval of the instructor offering the course.
Override from the Program offering the course (usually done through the program administrative assistant). Note: As of June 2019 overrides have an expiry date.
Complete the manual graduate studies course registration form found here: https://brocku.ca/graduate-studies/student-resources/forms/
Ensure the form is signed by Graduate Program Director of the Graduate Program and the course instructor, and that course is marked as Extra or Audit if appropriate.
Submit the form to the Faculty of Graduate Studies for processing.
$
$
Your Student Self Serve page on my.brocku.ca is for more than just registration. New functions are added from time to time, so be sure to check out the other services that the system has to offer:
$

4
Graduate Studies Courses – Graduate Studies
The Faculty of Graduate Studies and the Centre for Pedagogical Innovation are pleased to offer the following graduate level courses. Students from all Faculties are welcome to apply.
The Faculty of Graduate Studies and the Centre for Pedagogical Innovation partner to offer GRST 5P01, The Theory andPractice of University Teaching. The credit course explores the theories and practices of teaching in the post-secondary environment. Students engage in experiential approaches to course planning, instructional methods, evaluation, and reflective practice and create a teaching dossier to help contextualize their teaching experience at Brock. The course begins Tuesday Sept 24th at 1:00 pm in ST103 and runs every second week for the year.
The completion of a GRST course appears on the Brock academic transcript.
Please contact LianneFisher at x5329 or emaillfisher@brocku.ca
Please register online by Sept. 25th. Register using the same process as you would for any other course. Complete the Course Registration/Withdrawal form, obtain approval & signatures from your program, and then submit/deliver the completed and signed form to the Faculty of Graduate Studies who will manually register you.
Instructors: Lianne Fisher, CPI
Commences: Tuesday, Sept. 24th, 1:00 to 4:00 p.m., ST 103(classes continue every second week; when there is a university closure the class will resume the following week)
The credit course explores the theories and practices of teaching in the post-secondary environment. Students will engage in experiential approaches to course planning, instructional methods, evaluation and assessment, and reflective practice.
READ BROCK NEWS STORY: Graduate student course a gathering of practitioners
Instructor: Prof. Madelyn Law
Commences:Not offered this term
The course provides students with the opportunity to learn about best practices in academic and community collaborations and partnerships while gaining valuable real world experience. Students will meet bi-weekly throughout the year to discuss core principles in service learning and will engage in a community-based project in their field of interest. This course will allow students to understand how their skills and knowledge are transferable to work environments while also allowing for a positive contribution to a community organization.
For more information about the course and to learn more about the application process please contact Dr. Madelyn Law, Experiential Education Faculty Associate, mlaw@brocku.ca, 905 688 5550, x 5386
READ BROCK NEWS STORY: Course taps into benefits of service learning
$
Students will:
identify and connect major theoretical perspectives in instructional design, student learning, assessment, and reflective practice
practice instructional and presentation skills in micro teaching sessions
identify and develop formative and summative assessment strategies
practice skills in giving and receiving feedback
write a statement of teaching philosophy
create a teaching dossier representing significant teaching experiences and growth
identify the theoretical perspectives that position community-based experiences within the service learning literature
share approaches, strategies and best practices with a cohort of graduate students from multiple disciplines and perspectives
participate in active service learning projects within the community
describe, verbally and in writing, the transferrable skills/competencies acquired through the service learning involvement such as teamwork, problem solving, communication and leadership
$
Jill Planche doesnt hesitate in recommending the CPI-taught credit course, The Theory and Practice of University Teaching (GRST 5P01), to other graduate students who are interested in elevating their pedagogical philosophy and practice to a higher level.
Jill is a doctoral candidate in Interdisciplinary Humanities and a Brock TA. She has also been an online instructor for an Interactive Arts and Science course and a substitute instructor in the English department and Communications, Popular Culture and Film department.
For me, the most valuable reason for taking this course was to develop a better understanding of pedagogy and a chance to really think about the learning experience. The environment of the course is tremendously supportive and allows time to reflect on ones role in academia.
GRST 5P01 was established six years ago in partnership with the Faculty of Graduate Studies. Students craft their teaching skills through an active learning setting that emphasizes experiential approaches to course planning, instructional methods, evaluation and assessment, and reflective practice.In completing the course, students create a professional teaching dossier, reviewed by the CPI instructors and peers in the course. Jill describes the dossier as an all-important framework to build a successful teaching career and has used her dossier several times when applying for sessional instructor positions.
Not only is a teaching dossier essential for the academic hiring process, but it allows you to critically assess your approach to students, learning and teaching, as well as your experience and education in the field,
- Jill Planche, PhD Candidate
