
1

Applied Disability Studies
Students must check to ensure that prerequisites are met. Students may be deregistered, at the request of the instructor, from any course for which prerequisites and/or restrictions have not been met.
#ADST 3P82
A History of Disability Technologies
(also offered as HIST 3P82)
Cultural, scientific and medical roots of disability technologies from 1850 to the present. Historical examination of how ability technologies reveal individual experiences with disability as well as related notions of citizenship, gender, sexuality, identity and accessibility.
Lectures, seminar, 3 hours per week.
ADST 4P00
Foundations in Applied Disability Studies
Introduction to a broad spectrum of disability studies and literature authored by persons with disabilities.
Online.
Restriction: open to students with a minimum of 12.5 credits and permission of the Department.
Completion of this course will replace previous assigned grade and credit obtained in ADST 6P00.
ADST 4P50
Disability and Society
Theoretical, philosophical and practical issues facing persons with disabilities examined from a strengths-based model emphasizing diversity, identity and empowerment.
Online.
Restriction: open to students with a minimum of 12.5 credits and permission of the Department.
Prerequisite(s): ADST 4P00 (6P00).
Completion of this course will replace previous assigned grade and credit obtained in ADST 6P50.
ADST 4P85
Critical Qualitative Design Applications
Exploration, examination, and application of critical, reflective practice in qualitative research emphasizing patterns and distinctions across theoretical and typological foundations of qualitative inquiry.
Online.
Restriction: open to students with a minimum of 12.5 credits and permission of the Department.
Completion of this course will replace previous assigned grade and credit obtained in ADST 6P85.
ADST 4P90
Applied Behaviour Analysis Across the Lifespan I
Introduction to the science of applied behaviour analysis (ABA) as applied to persons with disabilities, their families, caregivers and teachers.
Online.
Restriction: open to students with a minimum of 12.5 credits and permission of the Department.
Note: students may not concurrently register in CHYS 3P47.
Completion of this course will replace previous assigned grade and credit obtained in ADST 6P90 and CHYS 3P47.
ADST 4P91
Applied Behaviour Analysis Across the Lifespan II
Further study in applied behaviour analysis (ABA) emphasizing interpretation and critical analysis of ABA research, and use of behaviour analytic framework as applied to effective interventions for people with disabilities.
Online.
Restriction: open to students with a minimum of 12.5 credits and permission of the Department.
Prerequisite(s): ADST 4P90 (6P90) or permission of the Department.
Completion of this course will replace previous assigned grade and credit obtained in ADST 6P91.
ADST 4P95
Research Methods in Applied Disability Studies
Overview of quantitative and qualitative approaches, methodologies, and designs used in research relating to or including persons with disabilities.
Online.
Restriction: open to students with a minimum of 12.5 credits and permission of the Department.
Completion of this course will replace previous assigned grade and credit obtained in ADST 6P95.
ADST 4P96
Directed Studies in Applied Disability Studies I
Experiential learning through program of study or research practicum, designed in consultation with the faculty member, that is not covered in the department's regular course offerings.
Restriction: open to students with a minimum of 12.5 overall credits and permission of the instructor and the Department.
Note: offered online. Arrangements must be agreed upon with the instructor and the department prior to registration.
ADST 4P97
Directed Studies in Applied Disability Studies II
Experiential learning through program of study or research practicum, designed in consultation with the faculty member, that is not covered in the department's regular course offerings.
Restriction: permission of the instructor and the Department.
Prerequisite(s): ADST 4P96.
Note: offered online. Arrangements must be agreed upon with the instructor and the department prior to registration.
Administrative Assistant
Brandy Sokoloski
905-688-5550, extension 5987
TH 146B
brocku.ca/ads
The vision of the Department of Applied Disability Studies is to be an internationally-recognized, pre-eminent academic Department that contributes to the betterment of the lives of people in our community and beyond, focusing on persons with disabilities and under served populations.
The mission of the Department of Applied Disability Studies is to educate students who will be agents of change to help better the lives of people in our community and beyond, focusing on persons with disabilities and under served populations. We strive to improve services and contribute to knowledge by conducting cutting edge basic and applied research, and by providing transdisciplinary, quality postgraduate education to the next generation of professionals, researchers, educators and to experienced professionals in the field. Faculty are internationally respected in disabilities and applied behaviour analysis, and students will be able to design a stimulating program of study that meets their current and future interests and career aspirations.
Undergraduate elective courses in applied disability studies are open to all students who have completed 12.5 credits at the time of registration. These elective options will be of particular interest to students who wish to pursue careers in disability related fields, Applied Behaviour Analysis or wish to continue in postgraduate education.
