
1
Immigration Consulting – International
#
What is a Study Permit
A study permit is an immigration document issued by the Canadian government. It allows you to be in Canada and to study. It can also allow you to work, if you meet the eligibility requirements (see the Working inCanada section for more information). A study permit is an immigration document issued by the Canadian government. It allows you to be in Canada and to study. It can also allow you to work, if you meet the eligibility requirements (see the  Working in Canada section for more information).
See a sample study permit
Who needs a study permit Who needs a study permit
Anyone who is not a Canadian citizen or permanent resident of Canada must have a study permit if they plan to study at Brock (or anotherDesignated Learning Institution (DLI)) for more than 6 months. Anyone who is not a Canadian citizen or permanent resident of Canada must have a study permit if they plan to study at Brock (or another ) for more than 6 months.
Whodoes NOT need a study permit Who does NOT need a study permit
Students that will study at Brock for less than 6 months (eg.1-term exchange or 1-session English-language) are not required to have a study permit BUT may choose to apply for one.Note:A study permit may allow for on or off-campus work and makes it easier to extend studies in Canada. Students that will study at Brock for less than 6 months ( eg. 1-term exchange or 1-session English-language) are not required to have a study permit BUT may choose to apply for one. Note: A study permit may allow for on or off-campus work and makes it easier to extend studies in Canada.
Even if a study permit is not required, most visitors will require a Temporary Resident Visa (TRV) or Electronic Travel Authorization (eTA) to travel to Canada (see the Temporary Resident (Entry) Visasection for more information). Even if a study permit is not required, most visitors will require a Temporary Resident Visa (TRV) or Electronic Travel Authorization ( eTA ) to travel to Canada (see the  Temporary Resident (Entry) Visa section for more information).
#
Applying for a first study permit (outside of Canada)
Study permit applications can take months to be processed. It is a good idea to apply as soon as you have your proof of admission to Brock.
How to apply for a study permit How to apply for a study permit
Generally, applications can be submitted online or on paper to Canadian visa offices and Visa Application Centres (VACs). Please note that application requirements depend on how and where you are applying. SeeIRCC details about the study permit application process
Citizens and permanent residents of the United States have the option of applying for a study permit when they enter Canada (processed immediately).
Brock Universitys DLI# is: O19394569014. This number must be included on a study permit application.
How long will it take to get a study permit approved How long will it take to get a study permit approved
Expected processing times are published by Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC).
Select: Temporary residence (visiting, studying, working) > Study permit (from outside Canada) > name of country from where you are applying. Select: Temporary residence (visiting, studying, working) > Study permit (from outside Canada) > name of country from where you are applying.
After applying After applying
Successful applicants for a study permitfrom outside Canadawill automatically receive a Temporary Resident (Entry) Visa or Electronic Travel Authorization (eTA) if their citizenship requires it. No separate application is required.
Successful applicants should receive a Port of Entry Introduction Letter. This letter must be presented to Canadian immigration officials when entering Canada to get the actual study permit issued.Do not leave the airport before getting the study permit.
How does COVID-19 impact the application
IRCC continues to accept applications during the COVID-19 response. Visa offices and Visa Application Centres (VACs) may be closed in your region. Applyingonline as soon as you have the necessary documents is highly recommendedas estimated processing times are likely to be extended. IRCC continues to accept applications during the COVID-19 response. Visa offices and Visa Application Centres (VACs) may be closed in your region. Applying online as soon as you have the necessary documents is highly recommended as estimated processing times are likely to be extended.
IRCC information about the impact of the COVID-19 response. .
#
Applying to extend student status (within Canada)
A study permit application can be submitted within Canada by someone that is already in Canada with: A study permit application can be submitted within Canada by someone that is already in Canada with:
A studypermitor work permit; OR,
Visitor status AND:
A spouse/partner in Canada with a work or study permit; OR,
Is an exchange student; OR,
Is a visiting student.
How to apply to extend student status
SeeIRCC details about applying to extend student status in Canada.
It is recommended to submit the application at lease one month plusthe current approximate processing timebefore the current permit expires.
Continuing students must includeproof of current enrolment(along with other documents).
Students transferring to Brock Students transferring to Brock
From Canadian colleges or universities: From Canadian colleges or universities:
From Canadian high schools: From Canadian high schools:
Must notify IRCC about their change of institution. This can be done onlinethrough your account on the IRCC site.
Must have a valid study permit. Can use high school study permit until its expiry date, but it is wise to apply for a post-secondary study permit as soon as possible.
#
What is a TRV/eTA
Temporary Resident Visas (TRVs)
Temporary Resident Visas (TRVs)(sometimes called visitor visas) are required by citizens ofsome countriesthat want to travel to Canada. They are stickers placed on the page of a passport by Canadian immigration officials before travelling to Canada. Temporary Resident Visas (TRVs)(sometimes called visitor visas) are required by citizens of that want to travel to Canada. They are stickers placed on the page of a passport by Canadian immigration officials before travelling to Canada.
The expiry date on the TRV indicates the deadline for you toenterCanada. It is not the last day that youare allowed tostay in Canada. The last day youare allowed tostay in Canada is the expiry date of your permit. See the Studying in Canadasectionof this page for more information.
The TRV does not need to be renewed when it expires unless you are planning to leave and then re-enter Canada.
Unless otherwise noted, TRVs are valid for multiple entries.
If you hold a valid study permit (or work permit), you do not need a TRV to come back to Canada following a visitonlyto the United States IF you return before the expiry date of your study permit (or work permit).
Electronic Travel Authorizations (eTAs)
Electronic Travel Authorizations (eTAs)are required by citizens of most visa-exempt countries that want toflyinto Canada. There is no physical sticker, theeTAis just associated with the passport number. Electronic Travel Authorizations ( eTAs ) are required by citizens of most visa-exempt countries that want to fly into Canada. There is no physical sticker, the eTA is just associated with the passport number.
If you do not have a TRV in your passport, you may be from a country that is exempt from the TRV requirement.Check the IRCC site to see if you need a TRV, aneTA, or neither.
AneTAcosts $7 CAD and is valid for 5 years or until the expiry of your passport (whichever comes first).
Applicationsaremade onlineand require a valid passport, e-mail address, and credit card.In most cases, aneTAwill be issued in minutes.
Successful applications for study or work permits automatically include aneTAfor those whose citizenship requires one.
#
Applying for a TRV
If you submit a successful application for a study permit outside of Canada (and your citizenship requires you to have a TRV oreTA), it will be issued with your letter of introduction.It is not necessary to submit a separate application. If you submit a successful application for a study permit outside of Canada (and your citizenship requires you to have a TRV or eTA ), it will be issued with your letter of introduction. It is not necessary to submit a separate application.
If you already have a study permit (or work permit) but yourTRV has expired, or if you do not require a study permit (because you will study for less than 6 months), you need to apply for a TRV. If you already have a study permit (or work permit) but yourTRV has expired, or if you do not require a study permit (because you will study for less than 6 months), you need to apply for a TRV.
How to apply for a TRV
SeeIRCC details about applying for a TRV.
Along with other documents, continuing students must include proof of current enrolment (please see below the Request Brock Documents section).
Applications can be processed inside or outside of Canada. Though the application can be made online, immigration officials will require the passport to place the visa in it. This can require extra time.
How long will it take to get a TRV approve
Expected processing times are published by Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC).Select: Temporary residence (visiting, studying, working) > Visitor visa (from outside Canada) > name of country from where you are applying. Select : Temporary residence (visiting, studying, working) > Visitor visa (from outside Canada) > name of country from where you are applying.
#
Work that does not require a work permit
Oncampus
Students can work on campus if they: Students can work on campus if they:
IRCC does not limit the number of hours an eligible student can work on campus. IRCC does not limit the number of hours an eligible student can work on campus.
Offcampus
Students can work off campus if they: Students can work off campus if they:
Full-time enrollment is different for graduate and undergraduate students, please refer to Academic Regulations inBrock Calendars. Full-time enrollment is different for graduate and undergraduate students, please refer to Academic Regulations in .
IRCC limits off-campus work to no more than 20hrs/week during study periods. Eligible students can only work more than 20hrs/week during scheduled breaks. This is when theuniversity/program can document that students are not required to be taking courses(eg.summer for undergraduate students).Not all programs have scheduled breaks. IRCC limits off-campus work to no more than 20hrs/week during study periods. Eligible students can only work more than 20hrs/week during scheduled breaks. This is when the ( eg. summer for undergraduate students). Not all programs have scheduled breaks .
are enrolled full-time,
have a valid study permit (with conditions/remarks allowing work) and,
have a valid Social Insurance Number (SIN).
are enrolled full-time in an academic,vocationalor professional program (doesnotinclude ESL/IELP) that is at least 6 months and leads to a degree, diploma or certificate,
have a valid study permit (with conditions/remarks allowing off-campus work) and,
#
Work that requires a work permit
Note:If you plan to work in areas where the protection of public health is essential, like with children or in a medical environment where you will have contact with patients, you may need to take animmigration medical exam. If you plan to work in areas where the protection of public health is essential, like with children or in a medical environment where you will have contact with patients, you may need to take an .
Co-op/Internshipworkpermit
This co-op/internship work permit program allows international students to participate in Canadian programs of study that require a co-op, internship, or other kind of placement (paid or unpaid). This co-op/internship work permit program allows international students to participate in Canadian programs of study that require a co-op, internship, or other kind of placement (paid or unpaid).
If you have been offered an internship as a summer job, but it is not a requirement of your program, you may be able to complete it using the on/off-campus work rules noted above. If you have been offered an internship as a summer job, but it is not a requirement of your program, you may be able to complete it using the on/off-campus work rules noted above.
Spousalopenworkpermit
Accompanying spouses and partners of international students are eligible to request a work permit if they want the right to work in Canada. Accompanying spouses and partners of international students are eligible to request a work permit if they want the right to work in Canada.
Post-graduationworkpermit (PGWP)
This is an opportunity for students that successfully complete a qualifying program of study in Canada to get a work permit for up to 3 years. This is an opportunity for students that successfully complete a qualifying program of study in Canada to get a work permit for up to 3 years.
The work permit application requires proofthat the work placement is a requirement for all students in the program. That means optional work placements are not eligible.
There isno application feefor the co-op/internship work permit because the work is a requirement of the Canadian program of study.
The work permit can be requested as part of a study permit application, or a separate application can be submitted if the work requirement is confirmed after starting the program.
SeeIRCC details about applying for a co-op/internship work permit.
This can be requested along with an initial study permit application or can be requested after a spouse or partner arrives in Canada.
If your spouse/partner has an open work permit and you are about to graduate and apply for a Post-Graduation Work Permit (PGWP), make an appointment with theInternational Student Advisor to discuss important considerations about that transition.
The length of the permit depends on the length of the qualifying program. Usually, programs between 8 and 23 months qualify for one month of work for every month of study (eg.8 monthprogram qualifies for an 8 month work permit). One exception to this rule is for graduate programs between 16 and 23 months, thatdonthave scheduled breaks. These intensive programs can qualify for a 3-year work permit. Programs that are 2 years or longer qualify for a 3-year work permit.
This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity (meaning it is an option after only one program).
A PGWP application requiresconfirmation of degree completion and a transcript.
SeeIRCC details about applying for a Post-Graduation Work Permit (PGWP).
#
Proof of current enrolment
Undergraduatestudents
Graduatestudents
ESL/IELP Students
ESL/IELP students should request anEnrollment Letter/Attendance Letterfrom theESL Services(GLN_B 208,Information Desk on the 2nd floor of the International Centre). ESL/IELP students should request an Enrollment Letter/Attendance Letter from the (GLN_B 208, Information Desk on the 2nd floor of the International Centre ) .
RequestConfirmation of Enrollment Lettervia my.brocku.ca.It is important that you select the correct academic year of study and session for which you are requesting the letter.
Brock Central@ the Registrars Office (3rdfloor,SchmonTower) can assist you with questions about the document.
*If the Confirmation of Enrollment Letter shows your status as part-time enrolled, please reach out to both Brock Central and us immediately.
The Faculty of Graduate Studies office(MC D250)can assist you with questions about the document.
#
Transcripts
Students who have study permits without these conditions must either apply for a new study permit, or an amendment to their current permit. Students who have study permits without these conditions must either apply for a new study permit, or an amendment to their current permit.
Undergraduate students
Graduate students
ESL/IELP students should request transcriptsfrom theESL Services(GLN_B 208, Information Desk on the 2nd floor of the International Centre). ESL/IELP students should request transcriptsfrom the (GLN_B 208, Information Desk on the 2nd floor of the International Centre).
For Visa application: Requesttranscriptsviamy.brocku.ca.Pleasenote: dont select hold for official marks unless youre finishing the term and you dont need the transcript right away.
For PGWP application: Requestfinal transcriptviamy.brocku.ca.Pleasenote:by selecting hold for official marks, you will receive the final transcript once the final marks become official.
For Visa application: Requesttranscriptsviamy.brocku.ca. Pleasenote: dont select hold for official marks unless youre finishing the term and you dont need the transcript right away.
#
Confirmation of degree completion
RequestEligibility to Graduate letterviamy.brocku.ca.Please note: this letter is available before the convocation. It should be requested after the final marks become official.
Request Post Graduation Work Permit Letter via my.brocku.ca.
The Faculty of Graduate Studies office(MC D250) can assist you with questions about the document.
#
Applying for a SIN
Service Canada information about the impact of the COVID-19 response on SIN applications
International students applying for a SIN require a permit that confirms their right to work. The options are:

a work permit; or,
a study permit that includes conditions allowing work on and/or off-campus
These documents, along with a passport can be taken to any Service Canada office to apply for the SIN. These applications are usually processed within minutes.Thenearest Service Canada officeis at 395 Ontario St. Henley Square Plaza.
Brock International Services invite Service Canada officers to issue SIN on campus multiple times through the year, please follow our upcoming events onExperienceBU.
Service Canada offices are currently closed due to the COVID-19 response. Social Insurance Number applications are being processed online or by mail until Service Canada offices re-open.
#
What to do if youre not eligible to get a SIN
Applying for a new permit
If the conditions were correct when the permit was issued (eg.Excluding off-campus work for English-language students), it will be necessary to apply for a new permit. If the conditions were correct when the permit was issued ( eg. Excluding off-campus work for English-language students), it will be necessary to apply for a new permit .
Requesting an amendment
If the conditions were wrong when the permit was issued (eg.Excluding work for a student in a post-secondary degree program) an amendment can be requested.
Amendment applicationsmust include the original offer of acceptanceused in the application for the current study permit ANDcurrent confirmation of enrolment.
There is no fee for an amendment request.
SeeIRCC details about applying for an amendment
#
How to assist your family or friends with their TRV application
In order toassist your family or friends with their TRV application, you should send them the following supporting documents:
 In order to assist your family or friends with their TRV application, you should send them the following supporting documents:
Invitation letterwritten by you(Brockdoes not provide an invitation letter, since you are the one inviting them.)
Copy of your study or work permit
Proof of your current registration
Copy of your passport
Additional documents may be required to support your friends or familys TRV application. They should follow the application instructions for the country they are applying from and the method of their application.
#
U.S. Visitor Visa
International students may apply for a U.S. visa via the U.S. Consulate in Toronto. To apply for a U.S.visayou mustbookan appointment online.
The United States Embassy Consular Services Canadas website provides current information about applying for a U.S. visa.
Learn more about the process of applying for a U.S. visa
The United States Embassy Consular Services  Consulate General Toronto
#
Other Related Information
Applying for non-immigrant U.S. visas in Toronto
The Visa Waiver Program (VWP)
Electronic System for Travel Authorization (ESTA)
U.S. Customs and Border Protection  Travel
#
Support through Brock
You can book an appointment with the International Student Advisor to discuss these and other topics through theInternational Student Support booking pageor send an email toisa@brocku.ca. You can book an appointment with the International Student Advisor to discuss these and other topics through the or send an email to .
#
Support outside Brock
Call Centre agents(Monday to Friday, 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Local time, excluding holidays)Services are available in French and English. Call Centre agents (Monday to Friday, 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Local time, excluding holidays)  Services are available in French and English.
IRCC Help Centre(frequently asked questions  online)
IRCC Client Support (Call) Centre 1-888-242-2100(for those already in Canada)
Automated telephone service(available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week):You can listen to pre-recorded information aboutIRCCprograms and check the status of your application.
IRCC Web Form(direct inquiriescan be submitted through the web form)

2
International Mobility – International
#
"I cannot participate because I only speak English."
False
The vast majority of opportunities abroad are conducted in English, including courses at our partner universities
Learning a new language is one of the benefits of participating in an international experience.
Employers will salute your efforts to adapt to a linguistically challenging environment.
#
"It's too expensive to participate."
Many international mobility programs are eligible for additional funding support such as scholarships, bursaries and OSAP.
Some international mobility programs, such as Exchange, allow you to continue paying your Brock tuition fees (in CAD).

There are other opportunities where the fees are discounted for Brock students.
The currency conversion in certain countries is favourable compared to the Canadian dollar, which allows you to travel on a budget.
Paid internship/co-op opportunities or on-campus jobs may be available.
You have complete control over your extra expenses such as weekend travel, and meals.
#
"Participating will prolong my graduation."
There are international opportunities open to any student, from any academic department, in any year level.
You can participate in short-term (one-two weeks) programs that do not directly conflict with Brocks Fall/Winter academic terms
Field courses, internships, and academic programs allow you to gain academic credit that can be applied to your Brock degree (as either core credits or electives)
The soft skills and intercultural experiences gained through international opportunities compliment your academic skills, and are strongly supported by employers.
#
"I've never travelled before so my lack of experience limits what I can participate in"
You receive advising, and pre-departure training from Brocks International Mobility office.
There are opportunities for group travel through Brock, including summer programming, and international field courses.
You can choose from a variety of destinations, and programs to match your comfort level.

3
Accessibility – Centre for Pedagogical Innovation
#
It's the law
The Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act, 2005 (AODA) is law in Ontario, and establish specific requirements for all Ontario organizations, including universities. As an inclusive university, we want to do whats right, not just because we have to comply with legislation. Just as we are removing barriers to our facilities and infrastructure on campus, we are moving toward making teaching and learning more accessible. Beginning Jan. 1, 2013, Section 16 of the Integrated Accessibility Standards Regulation of the AODA requires that educational institutions provide educators with accessibility awareness training related to accessible program or course delivery and instruction.
#
Goals
The purpose of this fact sheet, published by the Committee of Accessible Teaching & Learning is to:
Create awareness about accessible teaching and learning
Provide information about accessible program/course delivery and instruction
Profile educators and authors involved in removing barriers in teaching and learning
Inform readers about provincial accessibility legislation
#
Shifting paradigms
As a society and within our organizations, we are shifting paradigms  moving away from focusing on an individuals limitations or deficits (the medical model of disability) We are moving towards recognizing disability as a social construct, with the focus on proactively removing barriers to groups of people created by inaccessible design of our goods, services or facilities. Accessibility means giving people of all abilities the opportunity to participate fully in daily life. Accessibility means that we take reasonable efforts to provide our teaching and learning in a way that respects the dignity, independence, integration and equality of opportunity of all students, including students with disabilities. At Brock our institutional commitment to accessibility is outlined in our University policy  Provision of University Goods and Services to Persons with Disabilities.
#
Why does it matter to educators and students?
Flexible course design is important in order to create an accessible teaching and learning environment for a diversity of learners.
We must meet the students where they are and bring them to where we want them to be. My use of a variety of simulations and teaching styles allows for greater accessibility by each of my students who indeed have a variety of learning styles.
Professor Marilyn Cottrell
#
What is Universal Instructional Design (UID) or Universal Design for Learning (UDL)?
Universal Design for Learning is a set of principles for curriculum development that give all individuals equal opportunities to learn. UDL provides a blueprint for creating instructional goals, methods, materials, and assessments that work for everyone  not a single, one-size-fits-all solution but rather flexible approaches that can be customized and adjusted for individual needs
CAST
Universal design for learning is an excellent way to foster innovation in the classroom. The flexibility of curriculum design not only enables students to apply their knowledge to content areas, but also the creativity to generate new knowledge.
Dr. James Mandigo
How can you make your teaching and learning more accessible? Applying three basic principles in your curriculum design, content and delivery can make your course more accessible.
These principles are:
Based on University of Guelph  Universal Instructional Design
Provide Multiple Means of Representation (the what of learning)
Provide Multiple Means of Action and Expression (the how of learning)
Provide Multiple Means of Engagement (the why of learning)
#
Accessible course design benefits students
I find it very helpful to print out course materials before class, because I have a difficulty writing quickly, and rather than struggling to write everything down, I can focus my energy and attention on the class. All students can benefit from this practice.
Natasha Southwell, 3rd year

4
Curriculum design – Centre for Pedagogical Innovation
#
Degree Level Expectations
What are the DLES?
The Undergraduate Degree Level Expectations (UDLEs) and Graduate University Degree Level Expectations (GDLEs) represent the threshold level skills and knowledge Ontario students must demonstrate in order to successfully complete their programs. The Degree Level Expectations form an integral part of Ontarios Quality Assurance Framework, which establishes the protocols for the approval of new undergraduate and graduate programs and the review of existing programs at publicly assisted universities. (Excerpt from theOfficial Degree Level Expectations website hosted by McMaster University, funded by theCouncil of Ontario Universities.)
What are the Brock DLES?
Brock University has adopted the 6 DLES as established by OCAV. See the UDLES and GDLES on the Brock VP Academic website.
Faculties may also identify Faculty specific DLES as an opportunity to articulate outcomes and learning experiences specific to particular disciplines. Visit theCPI Curriculum resource page for more information.
#
Curriculum Mapping
CPI is available to facilitate curriculum mapping retreats, sessions, or consultations with faculty members, departments, or Faculties.
Curriculum mapping  Cyclical Academic Review Orientation 2019
Guide to Curriculum Mapping at Brock University
IQAP curriculum mapping tools and templates (Table A.1, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3)
#
Design for Online
Formally through the eLearning Initiative or upon request, CPI consults on web-enabled design for courses and programs.
Anyone can access the CPI guide and online module, though members of theBrock University community are encouraged to join the join-able Isaak-Sakaisite by going to https://lms.brocku.ca/portal/site/LearnTeachOnline logging in, and choosing to Join the site.
The full guide can be accessed by anyone.
#
Experiential Education
In partnership with the Experiential Education team, CPI supports efforts to integrate experiential education opportunities into courses and across programs at the undergraduate and graduate level.
The Faculty Guidebook on Experiential Education is a resource to faculty and instructors who want to explore experiential education as a teaching and learning practice.
#
Syllabus Template
Course outlines set out the expectations of the instructor in terms of the anticipated learning outcomes and they allow students to determine whether they can reasonably meet those expectations. To that end, there are a number of required components that must be on all Brock University course syllabi. Instructors are then welcome to add departmental or discipline specific information.
CPI hosts the Syllabus Templateon our website at:https://brocku.ca/pedagogical-innovation/teaching-tools/syllabus-template/
