
1
We take great care to ensure you’re prepared for the transition from school to the world of work. Your first work term builds your self-confidence and shows our corporate partners that Brock University co-op students make an immediate contribution.
We seek to understand the business and industry sectors in which you’ll be working, and to share that knowledge with you through the mandatory Co-op Professional Preparation Course. This non-credit course is led by co-op staff and often features employers from different industries. Please refer to the appropriate University calendar for how to include these workshops into your academic schedule.
Visit CareerZone today for more detailed information on your co-op process. 

2
EXPERIENCE A UNIVERSITY FOR YOU.
1. YOU’LL HAVE THE BEST STUDENT EXPERIENCE.
At Brock you’ll find a community that celebrates distinctive voices, intellectual curiosity and student wellness. Life is more than just the time spent in classrooms.
OUR VIEWBOOK
Find out all the wayswe’re ready for you.
EXPERIENCE BROCK
Join us online for anInformation Session.
2. WE’VE GOT YOUR BACK.
Your path to wellness is as unique as you are.
LEARN MORE
See what Brock is doingto support mental health.
TALK TO US
Chat 1-on-1 with ourRecruitment Officers.
3. YOU’LL GO BEYOND THE CLASSROOM.
We want your academic experience to be everything and more. 
PROGRAMS FOR YOU
More than 120 programsto match your passion.
See experiential learningin action at Brock.
4. WE’LL HELP FUND YOUR FUTURE.
We’ve committed over $4 million to our awards programs to applaud your achievements and to assist with the costs of financing your education.
STUDENT AWARDS& FINANCIAL AID
Brock wants to invest in you.
TUITION FEE ESTIMATOR
Estimate undergraduatefees for Brock tuition.
5. YOU’LL LOVE NIAGARA.
Brock is situated in the heart of the Niagara region, putting you in the centre of a vibrant and cultural area. 
CHECK US OUT
Take a guided virtualcampus tour from home.
EXPLORE NIAGARA
A great place to study,play, and work.
YOU WANT TOCHANGE THE WORLD.

3
Planning to become a Brock student?Consider this your road map — follow these steps, and next thing you know you’ll be a full-fledged Brock University student!
Ready to begin your Brock experience? There’s still time to apply!
Visit our Transfer Student Page
Learn more about transferring as an international student
If you haven’t done so already, activate your my.brocku.ca portal as soon as possible. You’ll access this portal to check your admission status, monitor any required documents, apply for residence, awards and bursaries, register for your courses, and pay your fees.
Watch our how-to video on submitting documents
Keep your email and mailing address current at the Ontario Universities’ Application Centre (OUAC). The current address we have on file may be viewed in your applicant portal at my.brocku.ca
A number of programs have program-specific deadlines. If you’ve applied to any of the programs listed on the page below, don’t miss these deadlines!
You’ve received your offer, you’ve done your happy dance, and you’re already drawing badgers all over your notes. Before you start packing your bags and making your way to Niagara, you’ll need to formally accept your offer to Brock University.
An ‘alternate offer’ means that we’re unable to offer you admission to your first-choice program at this point in time, but we still want you to become a Brock Badger! In order to make this happen, we’ve provided you with an alternate offer to a related program.
Connect with us and with other new Badgers on YouTube, Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Snapchat. You can ask questions, meet other new students, and receive information about new opportunities, deadlines and events. You can also show your Brock pride with custom banners for your online profiles.
Tours are offered regularly throughout the week and on select weekend dates.
Join us starting on March 1st for the full month, to participate in a series of interactive live webinars and sessions to experience all that Brock has to offer.
Did you know that Brock has been ranked #1 in mental health services by Maclean’s for 3 years in a row? When you arrive at Brock, know that we are here to support you with free, confidential services such as personal counselling, health services and a student health and wellness hub.
If applicable, you must submit your request for special admission consideration, including any supporting documentation by April 15, 2021.
Aboriginal Student Services provides academic and cultural support specifically tailored for all Status or Non-Status self-identified Aboriginal students (inclusive of First Nations, Metis, and Inuit students) in making a positive transition to the Brock community.
Your education at Brock is one of the best investments you’ll ever make! We want to recognize your achievements and help you to meet your financial needs. With a combination of Brock awards and bursaries, and available government support, we’ll help you to develop a plan to make your education at Brock affordable and manageable.
One application — more than $1 million available in awards and bursaries. Simply complete our OneApp before April 15, 2021 to be considered for awards valued up to $20,000 and bursaries up to $3,000. Apply early to increase your eligibility.
If you’re looking for ways to try and offset the costs of university, there are several tools available to you. The Ontario Student Assistance Program (OSAP) is the most common way to help pay for your education.Ontario students are encouraged to apply for OSAP before June 30, 2021 to ensure that their loan is processed on time.Learn more and apply to OSAP
Explore expected costs here to begin planning your budget
Brock is pleased to guarantee a space in residence to all new, full-time undergraduate students beginning in Fall 2021, who meet our residence application conditions.
Are you interested in pursuing a career in health care or in the legal field? Med Plus and Law Plus can provide you with the skills and experiences you’ll need to stand out and be noticed. You must submit your application for these co-curricular programs by April 15, 2021.
Transferring from another college or university? Attending as a mature or part-time student? Have questions about your courses? Book an appointment with your Academic Advisor as soon as possible to begin planning your academic career. Don’t wait, spaces fill fast. If you have transfer credits, they’ll assist in determining how the credits will fit within your degree. Visit my.brocku.ca to schedule your appointment.
Plan early to maximize your chances of getting the courses you want, when you want them.
Up-to-date fees and information can be found here
With one of the highest rates of overall student satisfaction in Ontario, you can count on Brock to deliver in all areas of your post-secondary career. Begin planning for your transition with our orientation programs.
Before classes begin, prepare for your Brock experience with Smart Start. You’ll hear from current students and campus partners about student supports and services, ways to be successful, campus life and the community, course registration support and our academic environment.
Continue your transition with BU4U, a series of orientation experiences to connect you to other students, and support services and resources throughout the year.
Important dates for the beginning of term may be found at brocku.ca/important-dates.
The program provides opportunities to design an academic success plan which can include free one to one tutoring, workshops and study groups led by peer mentors, along with a connections to services that fit your needs as a student who has transferred to Brock. Email learning@brocku.ca for more information.

4
BUSU, represents the students at Brock University in St. Catharines, Ontario, Canada. BUSU is a student run organization/corporation representing over 17,000 undergraduate students, providing a wide range of services, businesses and activities.
The GSA is a student organization that represents the interests of all graduate students at BrockUniversity: MBA, MEd, MAcc, MA, MSc, MTL & all PhD students (approximately 1700 in total).
BUSAC is a popularly elected legislative body composed of representatives from all academic faculties of the university as well as representatives for Residence, Off-Campus, and International students. Constitutionally, BUSAC serves as an “Executive Advisory Committee” of the Board of Directors.

5
This information is available to help you quickly find answers to questions about living in residence at Brock.
Coronavirus updates for students, faculty and staff Latest updates
Are you interested in living in residence next year? The Residence application is now open! Are you a new, current or graduate student?  Learn more about your options and apply today.
Move in Day is Sunday September 5th *.
Find out more residence life at Brock, apply to be a Don or learn about residence rules.
Get involved in what’s happening in residence by following us on Instagram or joining the Residences organization in ExperienceBU.
Take a virtual tour of our residence rooms.

6
Your Brock experience is not just about what you are learning in the classroom, it is about everything you do while you are here! Make the most of your time at Brock by engaging in experiences beyond the classroom.
Want some help or advice on getting involved? Are you looking to network, connect, lead, build your skills or just talk through an idea you have? Or maybe you just want some information about living off-campus, ExperienceBU and the CWC or finding your way in first year? Come and talk to us in the Student Life Involvement Commons.
There are so many cool events that we do through the year, we don’t even have space to list them all here! That’s why we have our Student Life page on ExperienceBU
Are you interested in building your skills? Check out our leadership opportunities like Foundations in Leadership or the Student Leadership Network.
ExperienceBU is Brock’s online involvement portal and events calendar. Find events to attend, clubs to join and be recognized for your involvement in the Campus-Wide Co-Curriculum path!
Finding ways to be involved can be overwhelming, we know! So to help you make the most of your experiences beyond the classroom, we have developed the Campus-Wide Co-curriculum (CWC) –  a unique guide to help you navigate opportunities that will help you get involved, gain skills and knowledge outside the classroom.
Getting involved in student government is a great way to meet new people, develop valuable skills, and make a difference on campus.
There are hundreds activities  happening on-campus throughout the year –check out a varsity game, take in the arts at Marilyn I Walker School of Fine and Performing Arts, walk with the Brock float in Niagara parades or attend a workshop to enhance you skills. There is so much happening finding activities that interest you is sure to be a breeze!
With over 200 student clubs, department and faculty associations, there is something for everyone. And even if you don’t find something that interests you, start your own club!
You can volunteer on campus, in the community or abroad. Take that next step—get involved! Not only are you going to feel good about making a difference, but your resume is also going to thank you.
Finding part time work on campus is a great way for you to get experience, develop skills for future careers, and of course, make money while studying at Brock. There are many job opportunities available for students on campus and there are several ways to go about finding those jobs.
Want to be part of the change you want to see on campus? Be an advocate. Advocating is the process of research, promotion, lobbying and direct action to make a change that will better the community as a whole. Being an advocate means standing up for what you believe in, as well as what is best for your community, and lobbying for that belief to become reality.
Sports fanatic? Need to blow off some steam? De-stress a little? Get in the Zone. Join a fitness class or try a personal trainer. Give intramurals a try or check out a varsity game. Get out there and get energized!
Brock University offers a variety of Experiential Learning Opportunities for student employment and career preparation, on and off campus. Experiential learning at Brock incorporates both alternatives that are integral to students’ academic programs, and alternatives that are optional, non-credit services for students.
Residence isn’t just bricks and mortar. Residence at Brock is a warm and inviting atmosphere and it’s the people that make it the best place to live. Whether as a Residence Life staff member, a member of the Residence Action Council, or helping residence students at the service desk, there are lots of opportunities to support Residence life.
Whatever your interests, there are SO many ways you can be involved – discover your passions, build your skills, meet new people, and make a difference. It does not matter how you are involved, it only matters that you are!

7
Brock University has a long-standing tradition of welcoming applicants from around the world.
Academic credential requirement by country.
Studying outside Canada in an English language school does not automatically exempt you from submitting proof of English proficiency. If English is not your first language, you will be asked to provide evidence of proficiency before an admission decision can be made. If you are required to submit a test, we will notify you by email and your portal at my.brocku.ca will show the document is required for assessment.
Advanced placement courses may be used to determine admissibility and also granting of transfer credits or exemption. If you have completed advanced placement courses as part of an appropriate secondary school credential, and submit an examination grade of 4 on individual results, you may be eligible to receive university credit to a maximum of 2.0 Brock credits. An official AP transcript is required for the evaluation process. For information about course equivalencies, email futurestudent@brocku.ca 
